You'll remember we just kind of wrapped
up a deep dive on stage one and
thinking about how to discover
the right first scope.
And you'll remember the transition
from stage 1 into stage 2 is actually
the only one that's very clear.
Right, so you've essentially
got that first version live.
And so now,
your focus shifts to stage 2 thinking,
which is really around
growing the adoption.
So in my experience,
it's actually not a very good approach
to force people to adopt your system,
to require it.
Although I definitely have
seen organizations do this and
occasionally they can kind of
make their way through it.
It's actually really tricky to do that and
to have that adoption last.
So instead, I think it's much better to
make a system that the people want to use.
And we've talked kind of a bit about
that throughout the day, but really if
you've done the work to understand
what's important to your subscribers.
Remember that's that engagement piece.
If you've listened to their input,
if you've listened to their feedback and
asked them to participate to help
shape the project, you're gonna build
something that solves their problems and
doesn't make their work harder.
And that's kind of the key to making
something they're gonna want to use.
So the top challenge here in stage
2 is to evolve the system to show
value to potential subscribers, right?
You're trying to not only support
the ones who are on board already, but
you're now thinking about who uses the
system, or who could use the system that
doesn't yet and what are the things
that are important to them.
So this means you've gotta be really
strategic about how you approach
the evolution of your system.
And actually the same kind of approach,
you kinda remember this approach
that we took early on, right,
where we took that color system for
one specific subscriber group, and
maybe we made that work across
a whole set of subscriber groups.
Now, if you've followed that same pattern,
you've taken that work and
you've maybe expanded it a little, and
maybe you've found some other areas where
you could do the same kind of thing.
And that maybe was your first release.
So now you're trying to
grow that adoption, right?
You're needing really to kinda push
hard on engagement with those potential
subscriber groups and understand what they
need and keep expanding into other areas.
Your goal is to be really
kind of selectively filling
out this area as much as makes sense for
your organization in a way that helps
you organically grow the adoption.
This is kinda how you take the approach
of building a system people want to use.
And if you're really creative,
you can make a lot of progress here.
I remember one story that I had with one
gentleman I was doing an interview with,
and he was a designer, and
it was kind of a design-led system and
he had gotten the budget to
hire one front-end developer.
And he had done a bunch of work and some
design tools and the front end dev came in
and they actually coded out some really
cool components, HTML only to start with,
web only to start with, and
they were having a hard time
getting devs to really be
interested in using it [LAUGH].
And so he just started kinda showing up to
the open door stuff their dev team had.
He was just sitting and
listening to the conversations and
before every meeting started, he noticed
they were talking about wanting,
the devs really wanting
to do open source work.
And so he heard that in several meetings.
So he went back to his boss and
he was like,
how would you feel about us open
sourcing the design system?
[LAUGH] And his boss was like, sure,
they kinda took a look at it and
made sure there was nothing in
there they couldn't release.
They got a version of it out in open
source, and literally within weeks,
he had developers interested in not
just using it but contributing to it.
So that's just a really creative way to
kinda figure out what is it that these
folks want?
What is it that they actually need?
And how do we come alongside them,
understand those needs, and
evolve the system in
a way that makes sense.
I love that, but
I'll also just say that's not enough.
It's not enough to build a system
that is just what people want,
because you're also asking them to change,
and
changing their workflows does take time,
right, it does take effort.
When I first did this work, one of
the things I thought I would be able
to identify was a percentage threshold
of some measure of adoption.
That means you've got enough people using
the system that you can move on to other
stage three type concerns.
But it turns out some teams move
into stage three very quickly.
And some, they'll get lots of
people using the system, but
they still aren't actually thinking
about anything other than adoption.
And it turns out that the thing that sort
of really actually helps you identify
when that mindset shifts is actually
not what you thought it would be,
it's not some threshold of users or
adopted or subscriber groups or something.
Instead, it's actually thinking
about the level of effort that
it takes to onboard a single subscriber.
And over time, what we see is if I do
the work to make the level of effort for
one subscriber to come on as
a new user to the system,
over time that means I can actually
allow for more users to come on,
and my time is saved because
it's easier for them.
They're more willing to come on
because it's easier for them.
I've also made the job easier for
me and my team.
It's like a weird sort of thing, but this
is actually one of the keys to getting
users to come on board and
stay on board of your system.